Monitoring kubernetes cluster is as much important as deploying application in kubernetes.
When it comes to monitoring , prometheus and grafana are the popular tools. Prometheus is a open source
monitoring tool which collect and store metrics data and grafana visualize the data. Grafana provide charts,
graph etc. and helpfull to visualize data collected by prometheus.
In this post, we are installing prometheus and grafana in minikube cluster using helm. We are integrating prometheus
with grafana and create a dashboard in grafana to monitor the k8s cluster.

Prerequisite: minikube, helm (brew install helm) installed in your local machine.

First open your cmd and download prometheus and grafana repo using helm:
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update

Then install prometheus:
helm install prometheus prometheus-community/prometheus
helm install -f values.yml prometheus prometheus-community/prometheus
(Uninstall:    helm list        helm uninstall releasename -n namespacename)

It will install required prometheus component. There is a k8s service already created for accessing prometheus gui,
but it's using cluster . though we can't access it in minikube, so we can create a new service using node-port:
kubectl expose service prometheus-server --type=NodePort --target-port=9090 --name=prometheus-server-nodeport

We can now access prometheus gui:
minikube service prometheus-server-nodeport

Our prometheus setup completed. Now we can install grafana:
helm install grafana grafana/grafana

Create a new service with node-port:
kubectl expose service grafana --type=NodePort --target-port=3000 --name=grafana-nodeport

Try to access grafana dashboard:
minikube service grafana-nodeport

Now we need to find out the username and password for grafana ui. Open your git bash terminal and run the
following commands to get password of admin user:
kubectl get secret --namespace default grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo

Add prometheus datasource URL - http://prometheus-server

Now try to login with admin user and respective password, then go to data source and add prometheus url which we
already created. Click save and test. We have added data source as our prometheus. Now we need a dashboard, for
simplifying thing we can import a existing grafana dashboard instead of creating a new dashboard from scratch.
Go to dashboard and import. We are using a dashboard available on grafana.com numbered “3662”. Add the dashboard
number and hit load<. On next screen choose our prometheus datasource and import. Now we have installed our grafana
dashboard.